This is my blog post.


Mon Sep 28 15:13:45 +08 2026

Oh I am so happy to manage to get this up and running, on a FreeBSD no less! I
hope I can automate some things with the power of github too. 

Many things have certainly happened. Lost a couple of friends, relationships
don't work out, and sometimes we wonder whether if we are the problem. But
Buddhism says this is all part and parcel of life, things come, things go. We
become a different person from before, so are the people around us. So we
shouldn't be too hard on ourselves. 

One of them is someone whom I used to think to be my friend, but we fell out.
First incident happened after I finished my Ph.D., and in a jest I casually
mentioned that I had a Ph.D. (I can't remember what the context was, but it was
certainly not meant to be a serious conversation). He became quite angry and
said that he was earning more than me. I think that was the moment when he
addressed me as Dr. X in all ocassions, even in group chats. The second incident
happened when he went to marathons just to do his "personal best". The third
incident, he doesn't not respect our time. Fourth incident, he got married and
he didn't tell anyone of us. 

I did feel hurt afterwards. The worst thing is he has been living rent free in
my mind ever since I stopped talking to him. I started focussing on myself, and
that nagging voice died down but it never went out. How should I get rid of this
attachment?

In Buddhism, attachment is the cause of all sufferings. (Well, not quite, in
fact it is our desires). I have seen two incidents clearly enough to be
convinced. 

The first was my friend. He used to have a happy childhood, and lived in a condo
with his parents in a very expensive estate. Then the parents fell out and
underwent divorce. They sold the condo and he stayed with his mother in a public
housing estate. Twenty years later, last year he made a hasty decision to buy a
condo, which has become a huge financial burden for him, and he has harder time
to sell it while still paying the mortgage. 

The second was another friend. He was dating a girl when this girl complained
much about him, saying he was not as good as her ex. He was quite unhappy and
told her that it was not appropriate for her to make this remark. Fast forward 7
years later, they broke up.

The third was a friend who used to be a nice person until he joined the banking
industry. I think he was treated harshly, saw the inequality between the rich
and the poor, and decided he will not be poor. He became attached to the ideas
of money and luxury. Now he has become a completely different person. 

So being attached to something has consequences. It changes us. Even an
innocent attachment to something innoculous may have its effect many years down
the road. So we need to learn

1. How not to be attached to so many things. 
2. If you are attached to something and you are miserable, you have to learn how
to undo that attachment. 

Undoing the attachment is something I wish I can do, but just like in medical
science, prevention is always easier than the cure. That's why buddhism and
taoism have a freaking huge ass compendium to teach people how to undo an
attachment.

So what is my assessment of that friend I broke up with. I should tell myself:
things come, things go. I should just focus on what is present. Things will
sort themselves out on its own.  
